In the last video we saw how to create objects from constructor functions using the new keyword in this
video.
We're going to learn how to use multiple constructor functions without duplicating code.
This material is going to be challenging.
So make sure the watch the video series on closures and the key word this before going forward.
Now let's imagine that we have two constructor functions one for a car and one for a motorcycle.
Here's the code for both of them.
And what we see here is nothing special just some functions that will construct objects using the new
keyboard but what's not great about this code.
Look how much we're duplicating our code in the motorcycle function.
It would be really neat if we could somehow borrow the code from the car function and put it in the
motor cycle function.
So you might be thinking why don't we just call car inside of motorcycle.
The problem here is when we call the car function the key word this refers to the object that will be
created from the car function and that's the wrong thing.
What we want to do here is change the value of the keyword this to be the object created from the motor
cycle function.
So how can we change the value of the keyword.
This Let's go back to our third rule of figuring out the value of the keyword.
This is with the explicit binding.
This means we want to use called apply or bind we can dismiss using bind because we do not want to return
a function definition so let's choose call or apply.
And yet let's look at both and see which one might be a wiser choice as a warning.
The code I'm going to show you can be pretty confusing at first.
So feel free to pause the video try to read it first and maybe even put it in the chrome console and
play around with what's happening.
So the car function looks the same but the fun stuff is happening in the motor cycle function instead
of duplicating code from the car function.
We invoke the car function to change the context of the key word this to be the key word.
That's what does that mean.
Think back to our problem before when we did not use call we lost the correct context of the key word
this the right value of the key word.
This should be whatever object is being created from the motorcycle function.
When the new keyword is used the way we access that object is by using the keyword this that's a bit
confusing.
So let's try to understand it again.
We want to remove duplication from our motorcycle function.
So we essentially borrow the code inside of the car function by calling it.
The problem here is that the keyword this inside of the car function is not the key word that we want
to use.
So we need to change the value of the keyword this when the card function is invoked to do that.
We use call or apply and as the first parameter the caller apply we specify what we would like the value
of the keyword this to be a value that we want the keyword this to be is the object that will be created
from the motorcycle function the way we get access to that object is by using the keyword us.
That's why the first argument to call reply is the keyword this which refers to the object created from
the motorcycle function.
When the new keyword is used if you're still tripped up on this no worries we're doing some pretty advanced
javascript here.
Pause the video.
Try these code examples.
And as always ask us questions that you have so we can use call or we can use apply.
Remember the only difference is the second parameter with apply the second parameter to apply is an
array of arguments that are passed to the function so we can either place make model and year in an
array or we can make use of another special keyword arguments.
You may have seen arguments before but if not arguments is a list of all of the arguments that are passed
to a function it is not technically an array.
But for our purposes you can think of it as one for now here's a quick example using the arguments array
like object.
I'm going to make a function called list arguments which will return the arguments passed to the function.
Now let's call list arguments with one two and three and we'll see we get back in array of the arguments
passed to the function.
Now in our example we can just use arguments instead of listing out make model and year and putting
them in an array.
That's a pretty nice refactor.
We've gone from copying and pasting three lines of our car function to borrowing the car function which
is one line of code in the next video we're going to recap what we learned about constructor functions
and the new keyboard.
See there.